# frailty-masld
The metabolomic and genetic mechanisms underlying the effect of physical frailty on metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease

Cox proportional hazard models were employed to estimate the hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% CI for the association between physical status and MASLD incidence with follow-up time as the time-dependent variable. The analysis used non-frail individuals as the reference group and adjusted for the 10 covariates described above. The proportional hazard assumption was checked using Schoenfeld residuals and no violations were detected.

To further explore whether the MASLD risk increased alongside the number of frailty indicators, a six-category model was established by treating frailty scores as a categorical variable. We also fitted exposure–response curves using restricted cubic splines in Cox proportional hazard models to assess potential nonlinearity with the R package ‘rms’. We investigated the association between five frailty components and the risk of MASLD individually (by establishing a separate model for each component of frailty) and mutually (by including the mutual adjustment of all five components)25,27,35. All analyses were performed using a 5-year landmark analysis, censoring participants experiencing events within the first 5 years of follow-up to account for potential reverse causality.

We performed both multiplicative and additive interaction analyses to assess the modifying effect of covariates on the association between frailty and MASLD incidence. The multiplicative interaction was assessed by incorporating a product term of each of the ten covariates with frailty into the model. The additive interaction was measured by relative excess risk due to interaction (RERI), attributable portion due to interaction (AP), and synergy index (SI) using the R package ‘interactionR’, as previously described. The 95% CIs were estimated by drawing 5000 bootstrap samples, and if an additive interaction exists, the 95% CI for RERI and AP will not contain zero.

We investigated how physical frailty relates to the 251 metabolomic biomarkers using linear-mixed effect models. Within the same analytical framework, physical frailty was fitted as a fixed effect, and the same set of covariates mentioned above were included as additional predictors of no interest13. The UK Biobank assessment center was modeled as a random effect, and each of the 251 metabolites was fitted as the dependent variable. We extracted the standardized β coefficients and 95% CIs. The prospective association between each of the 251 metabolites and MASLD risk was investigated using Cox proportional hazards models while simultaneously accounting for variables. We employed a conservative Bonferroni correction to establish top hits (P<0.05/251).

We performed bidirectional two-sample MR analyses to investigate the bidirectional causal association between physical frailty and MASLD using the ‘TwoSampleMR’ package in R

We used the ‘mediation’ package in R to examine the extent to which the metabolomic markers can explain the association between physical frailty and the risk of MASLD. For each of the metabolomic biomarkers showing significant association with both frailty and MASLD risk, we established a standard three-variable path model. In line with previous studies, the frailty-metabolite association was examined using multiple linear regression, while the frailty-MASLD and metabolite-MASLD association was examined using survival regression. The significance of mediating effects was determined using 5000 bootstrap iterations.

All analyses were conducted in R 4.3.3 and adjusted for the same set of covariates.
